---
title: "Digital Image Coorelation Final Project"
header:
  image: /assets/images/penbend.HEIC
  teaser: /assets/images/penbend.HEIC
classes: wide
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Structrual Analysis
  - Software
---

To finish this Fall semester, I lab group conducted a structural analysis of writing utensil to submit as a final project for our Electromechanical Systems class.

To conclude this semester of sensors, I participated in a final project with two other peers for our Electromechanical Systems course.
This course focused on critical skills for validation and test engineers. Ranging from simply monitoring a system for temperturare variations to identifying frequencies of resonance for wing structures,
this class delved into professional experimental analysis and the critical role analog and digital electronics play in them. The most consistent trait of this class was the utilization
of LabVIEW as a central hub for conversion and collection of signals, with little material convering the inner workings of the National Instruments Data Acquisition tools and how they
work with LabVIEW and the specified sensors. My previous experience with barebones sensor intergration with microcontrollers gave me a better conceptual understanding of how the
measusrment signals collected were being processed by LabVIEW and the associated tools, giving me time to focus on proper sensor selection and implementation.

Using what I've learned in this course, I would feel much more comfortable setting up a lab to conduct extended testing and monitoring. Becoming familiar with the LabVIEW suite, as well as
learning the fundementals of analog and digital measurement has made automated data collection and analysis much more approachable.
Our most exciting endavour was our final project, where we identified the buckling load of writing utensils using Digital Image Coorelation(DIC) software.
DIC software functions by taking successive photographs of a structure under a load and comparing the displacements of indiviual dots on the surface as they move over time.
Generating a surface plot of a strain distribution is a straight-forward procedure, however our unique structure intoduced an unforseen challenge. To easily strain our writing utensil,
we decided to use shims to create a bending moment on the clip of the pen's cap. This out of plane forcing is not condusive to two dimensional DIC analysis, and forced us to investigate new tools.

To our delight, a freely avaliable Matlab plugin, [MultiDIC](https://www.media.mit.edu/projects/multidic-a-matlab-toolbox-for-multi-view-3d-digital-image-correlation/overview/) seemed
to provide the exact features we needed to capture a full strain profile of our pen cap. 

With the Fall semester coming to a close, this blog is in severe need of an update. As I've been keeping busy with the solar car project and staying afloat in a sea of lab reports,
I am pleased to reflect on the variety of new tools and technologies I have been exposed to. Ranging from structural analysis to version control, these new tools can help me move forward
in a diverse industry. 